en: add source-configuration-file.md for 2.0 (#38)
pingcap/docs-dm: en/source-configuration-file.md

---
title: Upstream Database Configuration File
summary: Learn the configuration file of the upstream database
category: reference
---

# Upstream Database Configuration File

This document introduces the configuration files of the upstream database, including a configuration file template and instructions about what the configuration parameters mean.

## Configuration file template

The following is a configuration file template of the upstream database:

```toml
source-id = "mysql-replica-01"

# Enable GTID

enable-gtid = false

[from]
host = "127.0.0.1"
port = 3306
user = "root"

> password = "ZqMLjZ2j5khNelDEfDoUhkD5aV5fIJOe0fiog9w=" # The password here refers to the dmctl-encrypted password of the upstream MySQL user

Reviewer: What about `The password of the upstream user that is encrypted using dmctl`?

Author: How about `The user password of the upstream database. Note that the password must be encrypted using dmctl.`?

Reviewer: Good.

```

## Configuration parameters

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

This section describes each configuration parameter in the configuration file.

```

### Global configuration

| Parameter | Description |
| :------------ | :--------------------------------------- |

> | `source-id` | Identifies a MySQL instance. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `source-id` | Marks a MySQL instance. |
```

> | `enable-gtid` | Determines whether to pull binlog from the upstream using GTID. The default value is `false`. In general, you don't need to configure `enable-gtid` manually. However, if GTID is enabled in the upstream database, and the master/slave switch is required, you need to set `enable-gtid` to `true`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `enable-gtid` | Determines whether to pull binlogs from the upstream using GTID. The default value is `false`. In general, you do not need to configure `enable-gtid` manually. However, if GTID is enabled in the upstream database, and the master/slave switch is required, you need to set `enable-gtid` to `true`. |
```

| `host` | Specifies the host of the upstream database. |
| `port` | Specifies the port of the upstream database. |
| `user` | Specifies the username of the upstream database. |

> | `password` | Specifies the user password of the upstream database. Note that the password here refers to the dmctl-encrypted password. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `password` | Specifies the user password of the upstream database. Note that the password must be encrypted using dmctl. |
```

---
title: Upstream Database Configuration File
summary: Learn the configuration file of the upstream database
category: reference
---

# Upstream Database Configuration File

This document introduces the configuration file of the upstream database, including a configuration file template and the description of each configuration parameter in this file.

## Configuration file template

The following is a configuration file template of the upstream database:

```toml
source-id = "mysql-replica-01"

# Enables GTID.
enable-gtid = false

[from]
host = "127.0.0.1"
port = 3306
user = "root"
password = "ZqMLjZ2j5khNelDEfDoUhkD5aV5fIJOe0fiog9w=" # The user password of the upstream database. Note that the password must be encrypted using dmctl.
```

## Configuration parameters

This section describes each configuration parameter in the configuration file.

### Global configuration

| Parameter | Description |
| :------------ | :--------------------------------------- |
| `source-id` | Represents a MySQL instance ID. |

> | `enable-gtid` | Determines whether to pull binlogs from the upstream using GTID. The default value is `false`. In general, you do not need to configure `enable-gtid` manually. However, if GTID is enabled in the upstream database, and the master/slave switch is required, you need to set `enable-gtid` to `true`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `enable-gtid` | Determines whether to pull binlog from the upstream using GTID. The default value is `false`. In general, you do not need to configure `enable-gtid` manually. However, if GTID is enabled in the upstream database, and the master/slave switch is required, you need to set `enable-gtid` to `true`. |
```
